#  Supporting Hero Ingenuity Today

Today after having a nice talk about cultural protocols for job seeking with a close relative, we parted ways to go have some rest, but I kept thinking about the whole challenging situation of turning good work results into not only recognition but also into a promotion or any other type of career progress. There are no bills between us of course, I care because we’ve always protected each other. Thankfully, he trusts me just enough to share his situation with a full personal vision of business internal politics as objective as possible, his wisdom allows him to not get ahead of himself, he would never act by pure ambition because of his ethics and because he knows that would be like throwing punches wearing a blindfold in a humid, noisy, deafening environment; he’s done very good so far with all the programs he’s been in charge of and only wants to be in charge at projects, departments and areas until he’s certain about having detected opportunity fractures and confident about his skills to assess and execute a robust strategy to improve such lines of business, and to me, that shows how much he respects the company who’s got him covered. He also keeps people’s worth in mind, has respect for everyone and appreciation for those who value such a thing. It would be cool to give him credit here publicly and he might even receive more job offers than he’s getting but that would also put him in a tricky situation, so it’s better to keep him anonymous.

Our talk extended into interesting terrains concerning intuition, colleague character assessment, different types of leadership, how to detect what type of leadership is needed in which situations and many other factors that make the full context of the situation he is in: which is a good situation but seeking for angles to better our situations is always welcomed in the mind of a rising professional. I’m glad we have this habit of sharing experience because we both always grow from it; being surrounded by intelligent caring people is a thing to always be thankful for. I’m also glad about it because my talks with him and many other people are responsible for the expertise I’ve developed in such a field as to now being able to be offering related services. Our conversation also helped me to remember a long time ago when his admiration of a particular celebrity from the martial arts world influenced me and spiked my curiosity to understand what he saw in that person beyond the fighting. And this curiosity turned into life lessons for the both of us in diverse yet similar ways.

See, being a professional coach is very much like being a martial arts coach, there are different types of disciplines that get their distinction from the approach to manage the collision of physical bodies, which most people call ‘violence’; navigating businesses is not that much different, companies’ moral entities competing within the same industry and market have a tendency to destroy each other if the absorption alternative isn’t considered or doesn’t work out.
Fortunately, martial arts can also happen in competitive sport settings where violence has rules, and better jet: even when backstabbing happens, the constructive approach to internal business politics is that the interacting forces are mostly forces of peaceful will, active merit and trust.

A multidisciplinary martial artist will always have the best chance to triumph, take some time to study Bruce Lee’s methods and philosophy and you’ll know what I mean, maybe you already understand. As an actor the story is very different, of course, and theatricality also has a place in both business and in drunken boxing, but that is out of scope for this particular analysis.
Let’s focus on him as the professional fighter he was, that man wasn’t compromised with a single style, he saw his own body as an instrument to manifest any type of movement that would earn him victory as fast as possible without wasting too much time or energy; he would be unpredictable for any opponent because he had previously studied and could use unexpected moves from Muay Thai, Savate, Boxing, Wing Chun, Judo or whatever he invented while improvising thanks to the mastery of his own body; his Jeet Kune Do style rather than being a preset of combat moves or a military communication code, is a militant mindset of evolving adaption.

It’s worth noting that unless you know how to articulate your forms, exercises or kata moves to rise armies; martial arts on their own are not exactly oriented at making allies, and like I’ve written about before and always talk about: in business and in life, I very much prefer and enjoy making the right allies under adequate respectable conditions and sustainable terms. Many friends can align their agendas with yours just out of good will, obvious mutual benefit and other reasons to trust you. Some others align out of respect because you’ve put your skills to display.

Whenever the situation deserves it, I personally like Aikido for it’s pacifist tactics as a first option to deal with anyone, it gives a message of fundamental respect for both living entities in an encounter, at the same time that it lets your opponent know you are skilled and not to be messed with; you can better assimilate the intention of such a discipline if you consider the man who invented Aikido was coming home disgusted of crude human destruction, tired of a war, battles during which he nevertheless had epiphanies about a pacifist God.
It’s true what many experts point out, that Aikido can only work up to some point, if the interacting person is stubbornly committed to their role as an aggressive opponent, strategies must be adjusted to maintain your own health, self-defense is a necessity that wouldn’t tarnish your virtue. I hope more people can appreciate the virtue of pacifism as a strength: watching Aikido you will sometimes feel like you are watching a dance which aims to honor the integrity of human physical constitution, a beautiful homage to natural dignity.

I’m aware some plans can require a “wrapped up sword” tactic before any overtaking takes place, but involving tools or weapons into this metaphor would extend it beyond longwinded borderlines. I will only add, that the previous christmas someone gifted me an ornamental Bokken that fascinated me and has kept me inspired while I explore pacifism from diverse angles, and by doing so, he became in a sort of savior too. Sometimes I even use it to exercise simple moves: body, mind and spirit.
As a professional coach, talent scout and business advisor: my job is to invest my time diligently while helping my clients be prepared for challenges and prevent crisis,, assist them at dealing with any market situation or job issue,, and whenever experience falls short, to work resourcefully as a team to develop reliable strategies that will take them safely to mission success.

Gathering intel, developing tools, connecting dots, managing and expanding the team if needed.
Redesigning and trimming the operation which can easily vary in size and outgrow bonsai trees.
This is an Information Services agency after all, isn’t it?

Salud for growing healthy in time.
Jorge Arturo
Founder at Withonor

Checking out the main website you’ll notice that it is very minimal by design, to leave out the noise that most landing page trendy designs nowadays introduce mindlessly to appease insecurities “because formality”, that site could contain images of successful looking people pointing at screens or at team meetings, seemingly in control,, or pictures from my travels including San Francisco and Mountain View. I don’t have a weird unexplainable grudge against trendy graphic design, still, considering our streetwise type of audience, we don’t need that.
We prefer elegant simplicity; there are three main ways to be part of our network:
The third button is for those who value continuous assistance and recurrent guidance to become better professionals.
The second button is for companies who want our help, for example, to recruit people who fit better into their organization.
The first button is for people interested in getting help from our company to get better jobs, joining the list is a simple first proactive step.

Reverse enumeration means time is not only passing by but running out. Let’s make it worth and enjoy.

#diversity, #business-politics, #work-promotion-tactics, #martial-arts, #communication
Nine modest paragraphs of wisdom to share with you all. Well, it better be ten.
